Feature/jnitrace (#1676)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: Document/0x05c-Reverse-Engineering-and-Tampering.md

##### JNI Tracing

As detailed in section [Reviewing Disassembled Native Code](#reviewing-disassembled-native-code), the first argument passed to every JNI function is a JNI interface pointer. This pointer contains a table of functions that allows native code to access the Android Runtime. Identifying calls to these functions can help with understanding library functionality, such as what strings are created or Java methods are called.

[jnitrace](https://github.com/chame1eon/jnitrace "jnitrace") is a Frida based tool similar to frida-trace which specifically targets the usage of Android's JNI API by native libraries, providing a convenient way to obtain JNI method traces including arguments and return values.

You can easily install it by running `pip install jnitrace` and run it straightaway as follows:

```bash
$ jnitrace -l libnative-lib.so sg.vantagepoint.helloworldjni
```

> The `-l` option can be provided multiple times to trace multiple libraries, or `*` can be provided to trace all libraries. This, however, may provide a lot of output.

<img src="Images/Chapters/0x05c/jni_tracing_helloworldjni.png" width="500px"/>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

To learn more about all options for advanced usage, check the [documentation in the official Frida website](https://frida.re/docs/frida-trace/ "documentation").

> ##### JNI Tracing

Reviewer: we need a new line after the titles
```suggestion
##### JNI Tracing

```

> As detailed in the section on [Static Analysis](#static-analysis), the first argument passed to every JNI function is a JNI interface pointer. This pointer contains a table of functions that allows native code to access the Android Runtime. Spotting this pattern can help with understanding the type of functionality a library is performing, such as where it creates new strings or calls Java methods.

Reviewer: I'd rather refer to the subsection. If not it makes it difficult to check.

```suggestion
As detailed in section [Reviewing Disassembled Native Code](#reviewing-disassembled-native-code), the first argument passed to every JNI function is a JNI interface pointer. This pointer contains a table of functions that allows native code to access the Android Runtime. Spotting this pattern can help with understanding the type of functionality a library is performing, such as where it creates new strings or calls Java methods.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure if i understand what's meant by "Spotting this pattern". Could you please tell what is it meant here?

Author: I was trying to explaining that seeing those JNI method calls can be very useful in understanding what a native library is doing. I have attempted to rewrite that in the latest commit, let me know if you think it is any better.

> [jnitrace](https://github.com/chame1eon/jnitrace "jnitrace") is a Frida based tool that traces usage of the methods in the JNI interface pointer by a library, including the arguments and return values. It is heavily influenced by `frida-trace` and aims to provide similar functionality and output.

Reviewer: what do you think about this?
```suggestion
[jnitrace](https://github.com/chame1eon/jnitrace "jnitrace") is a Frida based tool similar to frida-trace which specifically targets the usage of Android's JNI API by native libraries, providing a convenient way to obtain JNI method traces including arguments and return values.
```

Like `frida-trace`, `jnitrace` can be installed via pip. However, `jnitrace` is only available for python3.

```bash
$ pip install jnitrace
```

> The simplest way to run `jnitrace` is as follows:

Reviewer: I'd remove lines 1022-1027 and put this;

```suggestion
You can easily install it by running `pip install jnitrace` and run it straightaway as follows:
```

```bash
$ jnitrace -l libnative-lib.so sg.vantagepoint.helloworldjni
```

> <img src="Images/Chapters/0x05c/jnitrace_trace_helloworldjni.png" width="500px"/>

Reviewer: I'm not able to visualize the image when going to "View file". could you please verify that? maybe it has something to be with the extension?

Author: Good spot. The file extension was capatilized, so worked on Windows but not elsewhere. I have changed the filename and made sure that the extension is lowercase.

> The output is colorised like frida-trace to easily distinguish output by thread.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output is colorized like frida-trace to easily distinguish output by thread.
```

To learn more about all options for advanced usage, check the [documentation in the official Frida website](https://frida.re/docs/frida-trace/ "documentation").

##### JNI Tracing

As detailed in section [Reviewing Disassembled Native Code](#reviewing-disassembled-native-code), the first argument passed to every JNI function is a JNI interface pointer. This pointer contains a table of functions that allows native code to access the Android Runtime. Identifying calls to these functions can help with understanding library functionality, such as what strings are created or Java methods are called.

[jnitrace](https://github.com/chame1eon/jnitrace "jnitrace") is a Frida based tool similar to frida-trace which specifically targets the usage of Android's JNI API by native libraries, providing a convenient way to obtain JNI method traces including arguments and return values.

Like `frida-trace`, `jnitrace` can be installed via pip. However, `jnitrace` is only available for python3.

```bash
$ pip install jnitrace
```

You can easily install it by running `pip install jnitrace` and run it straightaway as follows:

```bash
$ jnitrace -l libnative-lib.so sg.vantagepoint.helloworldjni
```

> <img src="Images/Chapters/0x05c/jni_tracing_helloworldjni.png" width="500px"/>

Author: Unfortunately, there is no accurate backtrace output for the helloworldjni app. I have thought of a couple of things I could do, let me know if you think any of them will work or if you have any suggestions:

- Crop the backtrace section from the screenshot
- Use the Frida fuzzy backtrace mode (shows output but the output is not correct)
- Show output from a different test application that does produce output

> <img src="Images/Chapters/0x05c/jni_tracing_helloworldjni.png" width="500px"/>

Author: Just disassembled the function in the HelloWorldJNI application and I believe it fails to find a backtrace because the "stringFromJNI" is not a "real" function. There is no ret instruction, it just movs the arguments into the correct registers and then jumps to the JNI method so that the JNI method can return directly back to the runtime.

I saw this in some of my test cases, now I think about it. I was able to force the compiler to stop this optimisation by having multiple JNI methods in the same function.

Anyway, for the backtrace my code does nothing special, it just calls the Frida API like as follows:

var bt = Thread.backtrace(this.context, Backtracer.ACCURATE)

That call returns a list of return addresses from the stack, for this app it returns an empty array for the reasons stated about. Using the Backtracer.FUZZY option I do get some output and it is *probably* detecting the correct return address into the runtime, but I haven't checked that to confirm.

If you look at the README on the jnitrace page you can see how the output looks when it does work.

The output is colorized like frida-trace to easily distinguish output by thread.

At the top of the output is the thread ID, followed by the JNI method call, the arguments passed to the function, and the return value. In the case of a call to a Java method, from native code, the Java method arguments will also be supplied. Finally `jnitrace` will attempt to use the `Frida` backtracing library to show where the JNI call was made from.

> > The `-l` option can be provided multiple times to trace multiple libraries, or `*` can be provided to trace all libraries. This, however, may provide a lot of output.

Reviewer: I'd put this line right before the image, after the command.
